an unfortunate personality. You've met people
like that. They just couldn't seem to get along
with anybody. And the last month or two of school,
we'd just, somebody every night would drown that
old boy out. And it was downright shameful. And
I've... I've been ashamed all my life of doing it,
but at the time it was an awful lot of fun. It's a
great deal more fun to bedevil somebody when you
get an adverse reaction. That's right. If you just
take it in stride, it's not really a great deal of
fun. That's right, and normally most of the people
would get drowned out once a year or once or twice in
the spring, and they'd take it good naturally and
say, okay, we're going to get tomorrow night, and
they'd leave him alone. But that type of a person,
everybody would concentrate on him. And it was, I
don't know why he didn't get webbed feet as much as
he was drafted out. But there wasn't as much of
that. Now there was a little of it over in the
non-military. Somebody that you didn't like and
you wanted to mess them up. Well, there's nothing
much worse than a big bucket of water and a cot and a
bed and a mattress because there ain't no going
back to bed. The rest of the night you sit up and it's
a lot of fun. and it's it's we got to where this old
boy we drowned out we go in and wake him up and just
he's set up we let him have it oh lord lord what kids
won't do there's not in the book what was the food
like in the mess hall i thought it was delightful i
never did have a complaint about the food a lot of
kids a lot of men boys complained about it. They
said it wasn't any good, it was dirty, and the truth
of the matter, the food was delicious, it was
nutritious, and there wasn't a boy that ever went
to A&M College that didn't grow fat and husky and
healthy on the food. But as you could understand,
preparing it in the quantities they did,
certainly it didn't have the touch that Mama did at
home. And naturally, there'd be some bitching
about it, griping about it, but I never did feel
that way about the food. In fact, I ate better at A&M
than I had all my life because I ate well at home, but
I worked like the devil, too. I mean, in the field,
hard, and so I had no complaint about the food. I
thought it was wonderful. Was there much variety,
or did you have Oh, I thought we had a lot of variety.
Now that there, I think, is part of the trouble. It
was kind of a monotonous menu. In other words, on
Monday you had this, Tuesday you had this,
Wednesday you had this, Thursday and Friday you
had this, and Saturday and Sunday. And you could
almost sit down and write the menu for the whole
week. And it did get monotonous in that sense.
Well, it wasn't because it wasn't good or
well-prepared or nutritious. You just kind of get
tired of it. So if you could rake up a few extra
dimes, you'd go over to Agland every now and then
and have a meal that you ordered yourself, what you
wanted, where you wanted. It wouldn't be a bit
better food, but it's something you sat down and
ordered and ate because you wanted it instead of
having it set in front of you. Psychological
dislike more than any actual dislike. Let's see,
was
your freshman year would have been the year after
Harold Dunn had the hamburger stand, wasn't it?
25, 26? I went there in the fall of 26. Did Harold
have a... He had it in 24 and 25 is when he had the
hamburger stand. Well, I was going to say Harold is
a class of 25, if I'm not mistaken. So he was gone. He
told me, I believe, that... athletic department
took over the hamburger stand. I think so. So it was
still there when you were there? Well, now, Pop,
uh, Pop, uh, the old man that ran a hamburger joint
over there himself, he ran it. I don't know whether
he was running it for the athletic department or
who. Pop,
uh, sir. I should remember that name, because
that's where a lot of us, when we get an extra dime
and didn't want to go to the mess hall, we'd go get a
hamburger with Pops. And I can't think of his last
name, because Pops is the only way I've ever called
him. No, Harold was, I believe, a class of 25,
because I met him after I moved to Lubbock. Okay.
Did the... Non-military students ate in the same
mess hall then with the military students for the
last three years? In the mess hall, yeah. They
didn't eat together. They had tables in a
different area because they came in from another
door. Most of the military came in from the, well,
towards Gine Hall, down that way, and the
non-military came in from the side over there.
They ate in the same mess hall but not at a different
table. See, all the companies ate together. They
had assigned sections where they ate and they all
ate there the whole year. And so did the
non-military. We'd eat at the same place.
What privileges did the upperclassmen have over
the freshmen?
Well, there wasn't many privileges that the
freshmen had that wasn't authorized by the
upperclassmen. But to me, it was a pretty
equitable system because the sophomores were
controlled by the juniors and the seniors. The
juniors were controlled by the seniors. The
seniors were controlled by the senior officers in
the military. So you had kind of a line of command
there. There wasn't any particular area that you
could be mistreated. As I say, there's nothing
lower in the world than a freshman unless it's a
sophomore. Now, sophomore is the lowest creature
on the campus, at least it used to be considered.
Freshman, he'd get by with ignorance, didn't know
when he really did know, but he could get by with it.
He might get his pants whomped, but he could still
get by with doing things that a sophomore or junior
couldn't because they knew better. But the
sophomores were kept in line primarily by the
seniors, and the juniors themselves were pretty
well kept in line by the seniors because I've seen
many a junior get his rear end whipped by a senior
for doing something that the senior didn't think
he should do. So hazing wasn't confined to
freshmen. It was all classes. All classes except
the seniors. That's right. Well, the seniors were
harassed and heckled by their own fellow officers
and the military. They weren't actually Hays, but
they had some degree of control over even them. No,
the freshman really was the... lucky one on the
campus because ignorance is not supposed to be an
excuse for violating the law but many many of them
do so well i didn't know any better i i thought you
could do that and with the sophomore he'd get in
trouble every time he'd do anything wrong so What
about privileges to leave the campus? Did the
upperclassmen have the privilege to do that more
frequently? Oh, yes. The juniors and the seniors,
as I recall, could leave any time they wanted to.
And the juniors could most of the time they wanted
to. And the sophomores, less often. And of course,
the freshmen could not leave without specific
permission, as I recall. I don't think I went to
Bryan my freshman year. How would you have gotten
to Bryan? Tuneville Trolley. Had the old trolley,
yeah. It ran until, I think, a couple of years after
I got out of there. See me like 27 or 8 or 9. I'm not
sure when they took the old trolley off. What about
your last three years there when you were
non-military? Did you have more privileges as a
non-military student than, say, the military
students did? Well, it seems to me that we did. We
had less restrictions. We were, as a civilian, the
two years that I was in the non-military but did not
wear a uniform, we pretty well came and went as we
wanted to. We'd go to Bryan or go to Houston. Now, I
don't mean we could miss class or anything like
that, but if it was a holiday or a weekend, we could
go where we wanted to with no particular problem.
But... And even in the military, you could, I
believe it was your junior and senior year. In
other words, just the two first years that you were
partially restricted to your dorm or to staying on
the campus. But then the last year when you were
non-military but you had to wear a uniform, were
you more under military control then? No, they had
nothing to do with us. We had no drilling or
nothing. It was a means purely of identification.
I think some of the military people got envious of
our civilian clothes and said, well, golly, they
ought to be in uniform, too. But, you know, my
senior year, when I had to wear a uniform, to meals
and to classes. I had one shirt and one pair of
pants. That's all I owned that year. I had a blue
serge, I mean not a blue serge, but a serge khaki
shirt and a nice pair of slacks, and that's the only
uniform I had all year. So even in the non-military
where you were required to wear a uniform, you
didn't have quite the expense or the uniforms that
juniors and seniors require. At that point, was it
a fairly
universal thing for the seniors to wear the kind of
boots that the seniors wear now, or did only the
senior officers wear the boots? Everybody, every
senior could wear them. The juniors, I mean the
seniors, were the only ones that could wear boots,
and of course Well, let's see. We went into, or the
military went into slacks. I know the first year,
my freshman year, we wore those old wrap leggings
because I despised them. I think that's one thing
that got me out of the military, wrapping that
legging every morning. And it seems to me that we
went, uh, the second year, no, by golly, the second
year we had, uh, either leggings or wrap leggings,
you know, these leather inside leggings or the
wraps. I believe both years, it seems to me. But I
think then my junior or senior year, when I was out
of the Corps, it seemed to me like they went to
slacks, but I'm not sure about the timing on that. I
know my sophomore year, I won the best drill medal
in my Company D infantry, and we were wearing those
laced leggings. You know, you lace them up the
side. I'm sure you've seen it. And I think we had
quit the old wrap leggings and gone to those, and
then I believe it was the third year I was at A&M that
they went to slacks, but I could be wrong. Did you
have any favorite instructors?
I believe one of my favorites down there was C.O.
Spriggs. I believe he was in the English
department and taught public speaking. And I took
public speaking as an elective, and I just
thoroughly enjoyed the way he handled his
courses. In other words, in teaching public
speaking, He didn't have the usual format of a book
and assignments and lessons. You were kind of on
your own. And he'd make you make impromptu
speeches and tell of some happening. You know, it
kind of gets you familiar with standing on your
feet. And I liked the general
lack of formality, I believe. Now, I had some math
teachers that I thoroughly enjoyed, Mr. Martin.
My sophomore year, I believe it was, I was taking
calculus. Yeah, Mr. Martin lived in Bryan.
Incidentally, I bought his house in 1943. He was a
mathematical wizard in my mind, and I thoroughly
enjoyed him. He's the only reason I probably
passed calculus, because I flunked it the first
time I took it. And the second time I passed it, and
only because he was such an excellent teacher. He
could just make you get it whether you wanted it or
not. And I guess he was one of my favorites. And Mr.
Mitchell, A. Mitchell, that taught engineering,
no, descriptive geometry, A. Mitchell. His son
lives there in Bryan, or at least I guess he still
does, Scripp Mitchell.
I guess those would be about my three favorite
teachers that I recall because not only subject
matter but the way they handled their subject
matter. Did you have any people in your
engineering courses in particular that you felt—
Like or dislike? Well, I like Si Sanstead, I
believe, as well as him. Si's still there, isn't
he, incidentally? I believe he's retired. Oh,
yes, Lord, he's retired. He's close to 90 years
old. I believe he's still living. He's old as the
college. But he was one of my favorites. Sleepy
Sanstead, they called him. Because he'd give you a
quiz and sit up there and doze in his chair. We
called him Sleepy. But he was an awful, awful nice
man, a good instructor. and uh last uh last time I
saw him he was still active as he could be and now
he's been retired in fact he retired from teaching
before I moved up here in 58. so he's bound to be in
his 80s he's not far from 90 years old yeah well I
think even then the compulsory retirement was 70
so yeah so he's he's up well up in his 80s I'm pretty
sure and Of course, Mr. Ritchie, the head of the
Civil Engineering Department, and J.T.L. McNew
were two more favorites, and I guess you might say I
had three favorites in the C.E. Department
because J.T.L. McNew taught highway
engineering, and by the time I was a junior, well,
my third, fourth, and fifth years, or the last two
years, I knew I was working towards highway
engineering. and J.T.L. McNew taught that and I
liked him. He's a very practical man down to earth
and he didn't care what the book said always if the
book didn't tell it like it was out on the job
because he worked for the public a lot in the summer
and he was an excellent instructor. What were the
attitudes of the students overall toward the
administration? I think they had a tremendous lot
of respect for the administration in general. It
seems to me, of course, I'm sure this is a thing that
everybody feels, as you get older you feel like the
younger people don't have the respect for the
administration or the
people in authority that you had when you were
young. But I think as a whole, the students were
pretty respectful and held in high esteem, most of
the administration. Because most of the
administration, so far as we knew as students and
campus life, were pretty well above approach. And
I'm sure they weren't because everybody's human
and everybody gets their foot in their mouth
occasionally. But you didn't hear much about it.
It wasn't discussed among the students, and in
general, they had a pretty high respect for him, I
think. The president was who? Thomas Otto Van
Waltenburg. Theo Walton. He was a fine man. And was
the same respect accorded to the commandant?
Well, there was a little bit of, let's say, kind of
a... slurring remarks made about the bull, the
commandant, I guess because just general
resentment toward authority, because you looked
at the military as authority, and everybody
rebels to some extent to authority at one time or
another. So there was a little less now outwardly
and in fact, to the Commandant's Office,
everybody was pretty respectful because they
were scared not to be. But there was a little more
slurring remarks and catty statements about
so-and-so and so-and-so in the military than
there was in the civilian administration, it
seemed to me. See, I mentioned at the time you were
there, there were at least, what, probably two
Commandants. Didn't they come generally for two
years? No. As I recall, they were assigned for four
years, I thought, because Colonel Nelson...
Well, actually, he's the only commandant I
remember because he was there, I think, my two
freshman years, or I mean my first two years while I
was in the military, and maybe the third year when I
got in non-military. I don't know. Colonel Nelson
is the only name I can recall while I was in school as
competent, let's put it that way. Now, whether he
was there two years or three years, I really don't
know. But I was thinking they were assigned there
for four years. I'm not quite certain about the
time that you were there. It seems to me that there
was a time period at least. earlier than that, that
the commandant was a two-year hitch. Well, now,
you could very well be right. I think there were
some who got a renewal, so to speak, and stayed more
than two. But anyway.
One thing that's of some interest currently is
perhaps less an issue now than a few years back, and
that is a matter of girls on campus. And we know that
there was a time period when there were a few girls,
and then there was none. And now, of course, we have
lots of them. Were there any girls in any of the
classes when you were there? In that particular
period, as I recall, there were no girls in school,
except now they could go to summer school. If you
went to summer school, there would be girls in
classes in summer. So far as I can remember, ever
since I can remember anything about A&M, girls
could go to summer school. There was no
restriction on summer school, as I recall. There
was no military. That's right, no military
activity going on then. But there were no girls in
any of the classes through the regular term during
my period down there, and I don't think there had
been for six, eight, or ten years. It seems to me
some of the professors' daughters graduated
there, and I've seen in the histories somewhere,
archives somewhere, and you probably know more
about that. There was one or two who actually
graduated from A&M years and years ago. But then
for a long period in there, All they could do was go
in summers, I recall.
At the time that you were there, did the students
who participated in intercollegiate athletics
enjoy any special privileges?
Oh, to some extent, I think you could say they did,
because any notable individual is given
certain...
Oh... limits or limitations or less limitations
on behavior probably than just an ordinary
student because that's part of the essence of of
notoriety they they just actually but so far as the
actual uh privileges all i know of they had a
special eating place they ate uh a little better,
supposedly, and I used to remember that they got
all the milk they wanted. Now, that's the one thing
that stands out in my mind, because I loved milk,
and we never had enough milk at the regular table.
But at the training table, they gave them all the
milk they wanted. And outside of that, I don't
think there was any particular special food or
anything. It was sometime after you were there
then that they had a separate athletic dormitory.
Oh, yeah. In fact, it was in the 40s, it seems to me,
after the war. I don't know when it was. Yeah.
Didn't old Bear Bryant get the first dormitory
built or it started in his regime or had they just
built it when Bear Bryant came there in the 50s? I
think it was earlier than that that they had to put
them all, took them out of their military company
and put them in the— Well, they may have, but I
remember Henderson Hall, and I was thinking that
was built about the time Barry Bryant came there in
the early 50s, but I'm not sure of that. I mean, I
believe that they were separated. Well, they
probably were, probably were.
Okay. were any number of the athletes
non-military for the last two years? Quite a few. I
remember old Joel Hunt was, and as I recall, it
seems to me Joel and one or two other of the football
players went into the non-military. In other
words, they didn't want to be bothered with
drilling and so forth. Now, I'm not even positive
about that, Charles, because as I say, I didn't
associate, didn't know them, and I just knew of
them. When you finished A&M then, did you have a job
lined up before you graduated?
In 1931, Charles, there wasn't any jobs anywhere.
If you remember, that was the bottom of the well.
No, I was pretty desperate because I had gotten my
degree. I couldn't go home without a job because I
was the first one in all of my family history that
had ever gone to college. And to go home without a
job after going to college, I just, well, I told
somebody there in Bryan after I finally went to
work, I said, I'd have started robbing before I'd
have gone home and admitted I didn't have a job
after getting a college degree. But I finally
managed to get a job there in Bryan with the highway
department because I think I got the man's
attention. I was so desperate that I offered to
work. I told Mr. Todd, the man that I went to work
for, he was a resident engineer there in Bryan. I
told him, I says, I will work one month for nothing.
just to prove to you how bad I need a job and that I
will work. Well, I'll never forget, he laughed and
looked at me and he says, you know, I believe you
want to work. I said, Mr. Todd, you don't know how
bad I want to work. I meant every word I said. I'll
work for a month for nothing because I got to have a
job. I can't go home without a job. Okay. So I
started to work for $3 a day. Of course, he paid me.
He didn't let me work a month for nothing, but I
still think that that got his attention in the fact
that, well, he does need to work, and they did need
people in the highway department, but I didn't
have any more chance than dozens of others who had
been to see him. But like the man with the mule, I
think I got his attention. What was your first
position in with the highway department? Rodman,
they called me a rodman. I drug a chain and held this
line rod that they used to sight at and cut brush and
drove stakes. Laying out new highways. Yep,
staking a new highway or setting construction
stakes for construction or rebuilding.
And that's where I started. First to June or around
the first of June of 1931. How
long did you stay in the Bryan office then, the
highway department? I was in the Bryan district
there for 28 years when I moved out here, 27 years I
believe it was, from 1931 to 58, 27 years.
did they offer you then the opportunity to move to
Lubbock, or did you request that? No, the state
highway engineer appointed me district engineer
in Lubbock in 1958. I had been through all of the
positions in a district headquarters or office,
including assistant district engineer. And I had
been assistant district engineer in Bryan for
Well, from 53 to the last of 57, about between four
and five years. And then Mr. Greer, who was a state
Iowa engineer then, asked me if I would like to come
to Lubbock as district engineer. And I was like the
idiot that went around on the drill field picking
up pieces of paper until he found a paper that said,
you are hereby discharged from the Army. He says,
this is the one I've been looking for. And that job
was the one I'd been looking for because to me it's
the best job in the highway department and that's
what I'd always aspired to be, a district
engineer, so Santa Claus came to see me in 1958. And
so we moved to Lubbock and I worked for 15 years
almost to a day because I moved here the first of
February, 58, and retired 1st of February, 1973.
So almost, just almost a day, 15 years. What would
you say would be some of the principal
developments in the last 40 years in highway
construction?
I guess computerization of many of our
calculations would be the most drastic change
because basically we're using the same type of
materials to build roads we've always used. Sand,
gravel, caliche, crushed stone, cement, steel,
you know, concrete. We've been using that for 40
some odd years. And your method of surveying
aerial photography, computerization of many of
our calculations of design of intricate
structures that used to take weeks and months of
careful figuring and checking back to see that
your calculations were correct. Would this be
calculations like on the cloverleaf? Yeah. And
you also can use computers for determining
elevations. You've seen some of these four-level
interchanges. They call them mixmasters. Well,
all of the Grades and elevations are computed with
a computer. By feeding certain information into
it, it'll come out and give you the elevations of
these various points on this Mixmaster looking
thing. Otherwise, it would be impossible to build
some of the interchanges that they have today
without computerization. Just like without
computers, it would have been impossible to go to
the moon. You just got to have it because you do the
figuring of 100 people.